I was glad to see that a book was going to be released about Rosemary Kennedy, as there as been so little discussion about the third Kennedy child. I found the story initially very interesting, there were a few details surrounding the birth of Rosemary that I wasn't aware of, and we now know the lack of oxygen during delivery could very well have contributed to her disabilities. The beginning of the book, I would say goes in line with what I have read about the childhood of all of the Kennedy children (the good and the bad) but it is towards the end of the book that I begin to wonder how many of the "facts" in this book are that of the author editorializing. As one other reviewer commented, the author does a lot of "Rosemary must have felt"...or "must have thought" interjecting her own interpretation of circumstances, and I think the author took great liberties in doing so. It was actually her biased description of the events in Kathleen Kennedy's life that turned my opinion of the overall book...her leaving the US because she was shunned by her family according to the author...which doesn't portray an accurate picture at all, Kathleen Kennedy spent many years in Great Britain, had many friends in Great Britain, and of course sought the comfort of her fallen husband's family when he died. Was Rose devastated by the marriage? Of course, but by no means was she kicked out of the family. The author continuously puts thoughts and words of her own creation into the Kathleen Kennedy situation, and so therefore, I can only assume she did the same with her commentary on Rosemary. The most extreme example, that I found to be the most unbelievable, is the author's "proof" that Kathleen knew about the lobotomy, and she references a joke that Kathleen made in a letter to her father about people walking around Washington without their brains. If you have done any research on the Kennedy family, the good and the bad, you would know that such a poor taste reference about the people without brains would not have been made by any member of the family to their father, shortly after he had the lobotomy performed, if they had KNOWN about the procedure. The Kennedy children loved their father, and they feared their father, to kick him when he was down, just would NOT HAVE HAPPENED. She made the joke to her father in reference to politicians, not in reference to lobotomy Rosemary had undergone. So, this is my main problem with the book, given the overall inference of her (the authors) own opinions, leads me to question what she has presented as "facts" about Rosemary.
