The centennial of the LUSITANIA was bound to sprout a crop of get-a-contract-make-a-quick-buck books. It has lots of elements of this genre: high society, rich people, rich people floating atop the poor, a sea voyage, secret codes, submarines, a big tragedy, with lots of people dying, a presidential romance, Winston Churchill, a conscience stricken submarine crewman who defies his authoritarian captain (whups, Larsen forgot to toss that one in)…it’s all there, waiting to be turned into another disaster movie, ripping off James Cameron’s idiotic mess.

Erik Larson’s attempt is a step better than this farrago, but only a step. I hoped for better from the author of IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS. Nope. To his credit, he didn’t solely follow the Greg King approach of reusing his research from a previous book (THUNDERSTRUCK) while rewriting previous authors. He’s dug more deeply than that. But it’s evident that the LUSITANIA didn’t engage him as deeply as IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS or THUNDERSTRUCK. There are a few small slips, such as the assertion that the decks of the ships blockading and bombarding the Dardanelles were bombarded with “thousands of tons” of shells. But a worse fault is that Larsen admits he included “small stories” that he could not fit into his main narrative, but he included them for the best reason: “just because.” Such examples as Woodrow Wilson’s courtship of his second wife, Wilson and Colonel House wandering the streets of New York, Conan Doyle's short story "Danger!" that foretold submarine warfare and its consequences, the odious bore Theodate Pope and her architectural struggles. To compensate, Larsen has left much out, starting with the splendid drawings Oliver Bernard, a LUSITANIA passenger, did of the sinking. He's made no real analysis of the conspiracy theory that the LUSITANIA was "bait" in the manner of the ABOUKIR, HOGUE, and CRESSY. One study that might be done to throw light on the conspiracy theory would be to examine the voyages of large passenger vessels in the area before the LUSITANIA was sunk. Did they follow the same odd course Turner did? Did their captains receive Admiralty warnings and ignroe them? Such reaerch might no be conclusive, but it would be suggestive. William Jennings Bryan is made out to be a boob, yet Bryan's diplomacy would have done more to keep the US out of the war than anything Wilson did. (true, it would have excted a high financial price for doing so, possibly dumping the US into a serious recession.) Finally, Larson doesn't do much with the aftermath of the sinking. The US didn't declare war on this sinking----but waited almost two more years, declaring war with no sinking comparable to the LUSITANIA in 1916-17.

Not one of Larson's better books. The gold standard of LUSITANIA books is still Diana Preston's LUSITANIA: AN EPCI TRAGEDY.
