"I had a farm in Africa, at the foot of the Ngong hills." Who among us doesn't know that evocative first line? Circling the Sun returns us to the Africa of the early 1900s and its cocoon of wealthy British expats. Whereas the novel Out of Africa is told from the point of view of Baroness Karen Blixen (Isak Dinesen) and tells of her love affair with Denys Finch Hatton, this novel is a first-person account from her rival for the dashing Finch Hatton, Beryl Markham.

Sadly, I found the book emphasizes not the romance of the times, but the depravity. It's hard to feel any sympathy for the characters, as their chief amusements seem to be drinking, drugging and bedding each other. In particular, Beryl Markham (as conveyed here) seems to be a woman of no inner reflection who bounces from affair to affair, from marriage to marriage, desperate to retain her independence, yet repeatedly sabotaging herself with her total lack of self knowledge and personal growth. In her inner dialog, the author tries to paint her sympathetically, but her actions belie that fiction. I suppose the reader is supposed to admire her resilience and her ability to overcome her difficult and motherless childhood, but I just found her complete lack of moral center off-putting. In particular, it's hard to swallow the story that she unwillingly abandoned the child she had with Mansfield Markham. She seemed not to have made any attempt at custody or to even remain near him in London. She simply repeated the disappearing act of her own mother.

It's not the author's fault that these characters -- based on real people -- acted as they did. Other authors have documented the degeneracy of that particular time and place (e.g., The Bolter by Frances Osborne), and in this book, the narrative is similarly replete with scene after repetitive scene of bad behavior. I kept on because I enjoyed reading about Beryl Markham's life as a horse trainer and aviator. But flying isn't even mentioned until the closing chapters of the book, so if that's what you're interested in, this book might not satisfy. I see Beryl Markham wrote a memoir, West with the Night, which might be a better read for me, a person who overwhelmingly prefers nonfiction.
