Well frankly, I was hoping for a little more from the book. The message of the book is that the US is not prepared for a Cyber Attack that could take down our electric grid. I totally agree. Mr. Koppel hunts for a solution but doesn't get too far. Frankly I suspect that he has never spent a single night backpacking or a single night away from his refrigerator or a nearby restaurant. It is actually not that difficult for people to survive a couple of weeks or even a month with just a little planning. When my son was 10 years old, we tried to hike the whole John Muir Trail (220 miles) just carrying our sleeping bags, food, stove in our backpack. We made it 100 miles in 10 days, but we survived those 10 days. Just sitting in a house and surviving would have been much easier. Apparently, Mr. Koppel has now discovered the wisdom of stockpiling some freeze dried food. Everyone should. Your local REI stock, amazon.com or wisefoodstorage.com are sources.

I looked at the same problem that Mr. Koppel did for an even worse case, an EMP attack. Here's the bottom line. DHS will fall on its face. The real basis for saving the country will be our military which has 1 million men, survivable communications, trucks, planes and ships. The military is an organization designed to work in adversity. The other thing that Mr. Koppel doesn't understand is that we are not going to be saved by freeze dried food except in the short term. What is going to save us is the greatest source of food in the world, our MidWest. We have enough food stored there to feed the entire country for a year. For example, try 1 billion chickens, silos of corn, silos of wheat. Try 100 million pigs and 100 million cattle. If America starved, it would only be because we were stupid. The idea proposed in "One Second After..." that most of us are going to starve is just stupid. That's why I wrote my book, "One Second After....in San Diego" (on amazon.com), which is a fictional book in which the military quickly takes the lead at organizing the relief of the country. If we ever have a Cyber Attack on our electrical grid or an even worse EMP attack, the very first place we should turn to is our military.
